Hi, this is Scott. I
really appreciate our sponsors because
they make the show possible.
Today's show is sponsored by
developer express, become a UI
superhero with dev express controls
and libraries. Deliver elegant.net solutions
that address customer needs today
by leveraging your existing knowledge,
you can build next generation
touch enabled solutions for tomorrow,
you can download your free
30 day trial@dxdothanselminutes.com. That's dx.hanselminutes.com
from hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel minutes,
our weekly discussion with web
developer and technologist Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number 538. In this episode,
Scott talks with Frank Krueger
about Frank's newly released app
continuous, which lets you do
C-sharp and dev sharp programming
on the iPad. Hi, this
is Scott Hanselman. This is
another episode of Hansel minutes
today. We're talking with Frank
Krueger from Kruger systems. You
may know him from Kalka
or I circuit, and Frank
just released an amazing new
app called continuous that lets
you do C sharp and
F sharp programming on your
iPad. And it is lit
the internet on fire. How
are you Frank Krueger. Oh,
I'm very well, Scott. Thanks
for having me on this
is very exciting day. You
just like tweeted and then,
you know, the world exploded
in a good way. I've
been waiting for this day
for about six months though.
Honestly, really? Does that mean
it's been close to being
done for the last six
months or is this a
matter of going around and
around with the app store?
Now? It's a little bit
of, I, I wasn't supposed
to be working on this
project in the beginning. And
so every month that it
took to write, I kind
of felt a little bit
bad for, but decided to
push through to the very
end. What do you mean
you weren't, we weren't supposed
to be working on this
or is this just a,
a toy that turned into
like your flagship? Yeah, that's
exactly what happened here. I,
what happened was I had
written a little ad in
for Xamarin studio to aid
in development. I wanted to
be able to test things
a lot faster on the
device and on the simulator
very quickly. And that led
down a rabbit hole of
me wanting to be able
to get that ad in
working on the device itself.
And what I realized once
I actually got that technology
working was that, Oh, darn
I can actually build a
full IDE. Now I have
all the technology here. And
so I gave myself permission
to work on it for
three months to see how
things turned out and it
ended up taking six months,
but one person in six
months built a very functional
IDE that runs on a
freaking iPad. So does that
mean, is that a, that's
either a Testament to your
skills or are the, as
I like to say the
Lego pieces are all the
right size. I mean, you
did have a compiler to
work from, correct? Yeah. I
had two compilers to work
from. Yeah. This was definitely
a confluence of a lot
of things going on. All
the compilers were open sourced,
I guess I've, Sharp's been
open source for awhile, but
C-sharp was recently open source.
So we we've always had
mano open sourced, but Roslyn
was kind of a pleasure
to work with, especially cause
Rosalyn's written in a very
functional style. And so accessing
it from F sharp was
very nice. But on top
of that, I've worked in
this space for a while
now, I guess I I've
written an IRL to JavaScript
converter I've. As I mentioned,
I wrote this ad in
earlier and years ago, I
kept writing MSI L interpreters.
So I, I had some
experience I've written iPad apps.
I wrote Calco, which was
very similar to an ID,
almost a simplified IDE. So
I had the experience running
into it and I had
all these huge, important, awesome
open source projects available to
me. So it was just
put it all together. Yeah.
When the last time I
had you on, we talked
about Calca, which is basically
like an interactive note pad
where you type in equations
and you type in markdown
and magic happens. It's kind
of like electric paper, math
focused. And the thing that
was exciting about Calca and
what I think was groundbreaking
about it was that it
was kind of the example
for a portable class libraries.
And the more specifically the
example for code reuse, you
know, making is portable code
that you could run, you
know, everywhere. And then you
ended up with a didn't
you do versions for basically
every place Kalka hasn't gotten
quite as far as I
circuit, I circled as the
one that I feel like
I've put on every device
known to man at this
point, but Coca hasn't gotten
quite there. It's mostly, I
keep, always keep running into
this. It's the text editors
on the different platforms. But
yeah, I, I w once
you've learned how to write
an app and are kind
of cross platform style, it's
hard to prevent yourself from
doing that, especially when all
the opportunities are there with
something like.net that runs everywhere.
How can you not architect
your app? And that style
Was Kalka and I circuit
written entirely in C sharp
and Xamarin. Yep. You got
it. All C sharp, a
hundred percent. You went and
rode continuous in F sharp.
Is that right? Yeah. Yeah.
That's right. Yeah. Where do
you even begin with that?
Was that something that you
felt confident about? Like, I
think that I would feel
comfortable goofing around in a
language that is not my
language, but I don't know
if I'd write my flagship
product. Oh, well again, I
got a little bit of
experience before doing this project.
So years ago I got
into F sharp a little
bit heavily. I was really
into functional programming and all
of that, but I kind
of had to drop F
sharp for various reasons. It
just wasn't supported in places
and it didn't run on
iOS when I got into
iOS programming. So I picked
it up for us second
time, seriously, actually learning the
language properly, trying to learn
idiomatic, I've sharp, all that
kind of stuff. And I
started writing iOS apps and,
and at first they were
pretty bad. I mean, I
was still still learning how
to architect the things, but
then I started writing this
three D modeler. And it
was that, that I started
having a few small little
epiphany is about how F
sharp can actually simplify a
lot of things in my
app and actually make it
possible to write large what
I consider large complicated apps
and actually get away with
it in a reasonable amount
of time. And so I
was running kind of app
after app and F sharp
from small to medium size.
And I was able to
take that knowledge when I
started working on this IDE
and at least I had
a starting point. I, yes,
I did have some confidence
going into it that it
was at least possible. Well,
people like me who speak
about functional programming and F
sharp squarely from a place
of ignorance, typically think of
it as something where you
would write the engine, you
know, like some financial services
engine or the thinking part,
everything, but the UI in
the functional bit, you know,
I did Haskell in college
and that's just kind of
like, I would think about
the, the brain being in
the functional programming language. And
then when you came to
do the real work, you
know, we do it in
C sharp, but you've proven
that perhaps to be not
the case with, with continuous.
Yeah. I mean, first I'll
say, I think that's a
very valid approach too. I
mean, the fact of the
matter is all of our
user interface libraries on all
that assume object oriented mutation
based stuff, you know, so
there's a little impedance mismatch
between functional programming and object
running programming when you're programming
gooeys, but let's see where
to begin with this. Well,
yeah, at sharp is great
for engines when I think
of it as great at
is data transformation. So I
have some data, I wrote
a function, outcomes, other data.
And if you want to
think of it differently, I
can move between domain models.
So F sharp and other
functional languages are really good
at modeling data to like
at the schema level and
your function, you can always
think of as taking a
domain and are putting a
range from one type system
to another type system. So
I always think of functional
programming in those terms. And
if you want to think
about a gooey then, well,
a gooey is just more
data. How do you get
data while you just write
a function that transforms from
one data source to another
data source? It just so
happens that last data source
is gooey is a UI
objects. And so there's not
a big mental leap and
going from functional programming to
gooey programming, the devil just
shows up the details. Like
I said, all the libraries
assume object oriented. They don't
like you recreating the gooey
every time data changes, anything
like that. So you have
to come up with solutions
for emulating mutation basically, and
allowing for that impedance mismatch.
But I think as a
community of developers, we're all
kind of figuring that out
lately Do now in F
sharp and in functional languages,
they don't want state held.
They don't want state changed.
Do do you, but when
you're using libraries that expect,
you know, like you said,
mutable things, do you, do
you end up cheating and
then dirtying the whole thing?
Or do you just try
to compartmentalize the yucky bits?
That's exactly what you do.
You try to compartmentalize the
yucky bits and, and to
be clear, state is fine.
Changing state is the problem
well said, well, you know,
state is just data and
data's fine. There isn't, there's
nothing wrong with that. If
you want to, there's multiple
ways to attack this problem.
I just gave a presentation
at a meetup last night,
where I was actually describing
my architecture for solving this
very problem. And someone else
gave a lightning talk just
before it was pretty much
a different solution, but a
perfectly equivalent on one. That's
why I'm hesitating a little
bit, cause there's many ways
to do this, but yeah,
you compartmentalize it. So in
my apps, I ended up
going with a view model
approach. So from my application
data, I just write functions.
My application data is essentially
immutable data. I write functions
that transform that data into
view models. Those themselves are
just immutable objects. They're fine.
View models are great because
they're good for cross platform
and for testability and that
kind of stuff. And then
all I need then is
a binding layer between the
view model and the icky
gooey object oriented objects that
expect state changes. And then
it just becomes an issue
of that simple little binding
later, When you say things
like simple little verse and
simple little that somehow I
suspect that the result perhaps
isn't that simple. Yeah. Okay.
For sure. There are tricks
to be had. Sorry. I'm
thinking through. Oh, that's all
right. We can make it
not simple. How to make
it complicated. Hey, if it's,
if it's simple, like let's
look at it like this
let's let's take, let's take
it back to the basics.
I've got a hello world
and C-sharp, and I throw
it into a text controller
and I make an iPad
app and I've got, now
I've got some C-sharp and
I, I want it to
compile. So I put in
a button and I move
Roslyn over. And does Roslyn
just compile? Does it just
work? Is it ready to
go? Yeah. Roselyn was pretty
close. I did have to
fork it. I did have
to bang out a few
things or a few little
like calm interrupt, you know,
calm. It's still hanging its
head over.net. A few things
had to be torn out
a Roslyn to actually get
it running Xamarin. But that
was just a little bit
of grunt work. That one
wasn't too bad. Is that
scary at all? Like now
you have this fork that
you have to keep up
to date. Totally scary. And
so I w I was
pushing to get up Frank
or something or Great. If
you go to  slash
Rosalyn, you'll find it. Yeah.
Yeah. So I I'm pushing
to get that one put
up into master or into
some version so that my
little changes won't be put
in. Unfortunately, there are some
changes that happen have to
happen at Xamarin because they
don't want to change Roslyn
code just because of Samara
and that kind of stuff.
But it's a tiny bit
scary. But at the same
time, Roslyn has lots of
unit tests. It's a pretty
safe. Okay. So the unit
tests and Roslyn make it
less scary. Like I look
here and I see, you
know, this branch is 5,000
commits behind master. Oh God.
But they move the code
so fast. Okay. So that's
not a worry. So then
you have the Roslyn, Roslyn
has some well, you know,
very nice tests. It's a
very well respected code base.
You throw your code that
was in the text box
over at Roslyn and stuff
pops out the other end.
But don't, I remember something
about, you know, iOS, not
allowing jitters and compilers and
exactly what you're trying to
do. Yeah. It's a little
bit of an issue. Yeah.
It totally is. The actual
requirement is a lot more
technical than that. It is
you cannot execute memory. So
that prevents jets, because what
does it do? It allocates
a memory runs a compiler,
emit, some arm code or
some xAd X 86 code
into memory. And then it
tells the CPU go execute
that memory. It's that last
little step that iOS doesn't
allow. You can actually do
everything up till then, but
you can't execute that memory.
So what are you left
with? You have to write
an interpreter. And that's what
I did. I wrote an
I L interpreter for iOS
That's right. I wrote an
IO interpreter. I had a
decision in the beginning. I
could have written a C
sharp interpreter that worked off
of the Roslyn syntax tree.
But in the beginning I
said, I needed to be
true to myself. I can't
write this app and F
sharp and then not support
F sharp in the app.
That just seems ridiculous to
me. And so I took
the slightly harder route of
writing an IOL interpreter instead
of Well, sharp entrepreneur, just
to Smith. I say that
with the, like, with respect
and awe, I want to
make sure you're clear. So
you, you emit this, you
know, Roslyn goes and admits
the assembly, which then sits
in memory somewhere and you
get some array of instructions
and then you interpret over
it. That seems like a
big deal. Was that a
lot of work was that
five of the six months,
No work. And it's continually
going to be a lot
of work. Yeah. I got
the rough demo. That's what
I was talking about happened
about six months ago, it
was, I got the rough
demo of a rough interpret
or working, but it's been
six months of continuously rereading
the IOL spec and trying
to understand all the exact
semantics and getting everything exactly
right. It's an ongoing, painful
little part, but I couldn't
come up with any other
solution for it. And I
figured it's always, it's always
been the problem I've wanted
to write this app or
things similar to it before.
And I just was, this
was always the hurdle to
get over. And so just
one night I decided, well,
if I remove that hurdle,
I have a lot of
opportunities in front of me.
So I'm just going to
sit here and drink diet
Coke until that hurdle It
was gone. And I did
that. So if you have
the pie chart that represents
the work, there is continuous.
How much of that pie
chart is the aisle interpreter
Let's do two pie charts.
One is features. One is
bugs and the bugs column,
it's a hundred percent of
the interpreter. The gooey has
been pretty easy to work
with. The compilers have been
pretty easy to work with.
I mean, dealing with project
systems is always a hairy
mess, but you can get
over that. The entrepreneur has
just been one thing over
another and they are hard
bugs. I just, I keep
screenshots of debugging sessions and
I go back and look
at them and kind of
get sick to my stomach.
Looking at all this stuff
you had to Wade through,
because basically you have to
write a tracing interpreter, watch
every aisle instruction, see what
all the state, every IO
instruction is changing and slowly
learn that and figure out
all the bugs. Interesting. Is
there a product there as
well? I actually did break
it out into its own
library. I was thinking about
open sourcing. I'm still debating
on that side. It's a
funny interpreter. A lot of
the bugs come from the
fact that I don't actually
want to run everything interpreted
because I knew well, for
one, it's just going to
be slow. I knew this
interpreter was going to be
slow. And so the interpreter,
every opportunity it can, it
tries to go to reflection.
And that means execute things
through reflection because they're compiled
and compiled all the way
down to native arm code.
It's very fast And that's
allowed why, because that's what
your app is. Okay. When
I write a Xamarin app,
it has to compile all
of my I L and
two arm code. And that
means every well, they have
a linker, but essentially every
ms. Correlate function, every library
function turns into a arm
native function. That's the beauty
of Xamarin is it's real
fast executable code. And so
my app, it's constantly trying
to bridge over to that
code to get out of
the interpreted land and into
the fastest, My end. I
see. Yeah. And so most
of the bugs, pretty much
all the limitations happen at
that bridge point of me
trying to get over into
the reflection land, but it's
an important one. All my
performance comes from that. If
I was to run everything
interpreted well, I don't think
people would enjoy the app
as it stands right now.
Yeah. Yeah. One of the
other things that's really impressive
about it and like surprisingly
impressive is the, the course
syntax highlighting, which hard, but
you know, not like the
world's hardest problem part, but,
but IntelliSense of a sword
is that Roslyn that's giving
you that information. You've kind
of built an Omni sharp
for iPad. Yeah. Basically. And
as kicking myself a little
bit, because I saw a
Omni sharp released like job
Jason RPC protocol lately, too.
I was kind of kicking
myself for not implementing that
protocol, but yeah, Roselyn does
a bit of the work
it does about, I would
say half of the work
Microsoft doesn't include one function
that I could call and
it would give me back
like visual studio, quality code
completion. So a lot of
that, I have to hammer
together myself. They gave me
all the query functions, but
I actually have to put
together that list and match
it up the way I
want to match it up,
which is a bit of
work, but that's actually the
kind of the fun work
I want to make even
better improvements there. But it's
fun. I was running a
scripts on my computer that
would build hits to grounds
of all the identifiers and
all the keywords and all
the operators use throughout all
my code on my computers.
And I was trying to
figure out ways to make
that just better, just the
smoother typing experience. And so
I can kind of nerd
out on that side and
I, I actually kind of
really enjoy it. And then
I have to write it
twice. I have to write
it for F sharp also.
And the sharp side is
a little bit trickier to
Roslyn helps out quite a
bit. So when you make
a new project on this
thing on continuous, is it,
is it a CS proj?
I noticed that some of
the extensions are CSX. Is
that not C-sharp? I mean,
give me a sense of
how much is this Frank
world versus how this is
classic done a development? Well,
it's CSX files. Let's address
us first. I think these,
this is a standard because
visual studio code supports it.
I think the newest visual
studio does also Xamarin studio
does not, but it's just
a C-sharp script file. So
than pretty neat because it
has two modes. It has
regular C-sharp mode. And now
it has this new, all
C sharp has a scripting
mode also, which allows you
to create a global variables
put statements right. At the
root level script stuff, basically.
Right, Right. Yeah. He has
X files. They were added
in Roslyn in 2011. Wow.
And what's neat about them
as you can put, what
is it pers hashtag R
for the reference inline, the
reference rather than saying dash
are on the command line,
which doesn't exist in your
world. Right. And a little
sad thing there for continuous.
It has a limited set
of libraries. I didn't, I
didn't fully pack it with
everything. It has all of
ms. Score live all of
Samara and all that stuff,
but there's a lot of
new gets I want to
get on there also. Okay.
That's a great question. So
if I go, you know,
pound signed are Newton, soft
dot Jason, right? Does that?
There's no new, good. I'm
not going to get it
to I'm out of luck
because A few fun limitations
in there right now, these
are on the documentation of
the website. If you go
to the bottom of it,
the big ones are reflection.
Basically doesn't work. And that's
just a limitation of my
interpreter, the way I decided
for the interpreter to work,
I can get it to
work in some scenarios, but
I couldn't get it to
work 100%. So I'm just
saying there's a limitation, reflection,
doesn't work. And unfortunately that
affects a lot of great
libraries like Jason, jason.net. I
think the best use of
it. If it's a reflection
stuff, can it never work?
It can work. I just
have to bang my head
a little bit and maybe
get me gal on the
phone and bug him a
little better. Some of the
other Xamarin and figure out
something, Hopefully they'll hook you
up. I'm sure that they
will. They will. I just,
as a small matter of
pride, I tried to do
this without asking too many
questions. I was trying to
figure everything out, but I'm
at the point now where
I'm humble enough to start
begging for some more knowledge.
I think it's a pretty
impressive accomplishment as it is.
So yes, I think it's
okay to ask questions. I
can ask now. Okay. It's
okay to ask. We all
appreciate you. And we want
you to ask, okay, now
let's, let's ask the trolling
questions because you've, you've had
500 plus retweets at the
time of this recording. It's
going to be thousands. By
the time anyone listens to
this, I tweeted it 500
retweets. There is a hunger
for this kind of thing.
So we have seen a,
what would you want this
on a tablet? How dumb
is this? Are you really,
is this a toy or
are you doing real work
on your iPad? No, this
is in fact I've been
stopping myself by putting the
word professional everywhere because that's
my whole point here is
I actually want something I
can use. Does that mean
I'm going to switch a
hundred percent of my development
over to the iPad? No,
for a various reasons. One
being, I have a 30
inch monitor that I adore,
but that said, I want
this. I want to be
able to load a real
project and it, and work
on sub parts of that
project within it. Namely user
interfaces controls, basically the object
oriented type stuff. On top
of that, it's just a
better experience for writing interactive
apps. I said, in my
blog entry, I get really
tired of the waiting during
compile and deployment phase of
development. And I get really
impatient and I start checking
Twitter and all that kind
of stuff. And so I've
just found having live objects
right next to the code
has just really changed. I
write better controls now, basically
because I actually spend time
fine tuning them, trying out
different ways of attacking them,
playing with them, you know,
different interactions. So my response
is I am building this
specifically to aid myself in
my professional career. So if
other people can't find that
a use for it, sorry,
but definitely going for pro
on this. So this is
a, and we, we, maybe
we should, we should push
on this a little bit.
Maybe we, maybe I failed
to the app is called
continuous because even though there's
a, you know, an arrow
button, a play button it's
compiling and running your code
as you're typing it, like
it's, you are, you're in
a running more than a
ripple. Yeah. All the time.
Yeah. I want to, I'm
always trying to improve upon
the rep. Oh, I love
the rappel. It's very cool.
You type in some code,
you get an answer back.
But my problem with it
has always been that it
never worked with what I
call Breo code. Whereas in
C sharp, we don't really
write scripts. We write declarations,
we declare a class and
we declare methods on it.
We declare fields. We don't
really declare objects though. That
stuff happens procedurally and methods
and all that kind of
stuff. So I decided that
the rappel just doesn't work
for me. So I need
a different kind of solution.
And I came up with
this idea of, well, I'll
just let people new up
any object that they want.
And I'll just keep that
object running. What the heck,
what could go wrong with
that? And so anytime you're
in the app, you can
find a class new up
that class and just start
inspecting it as if you
are always debugging. So I
guess it's always, it's almost
like continuous debugging instead of
continuously building. And that's why
I call that inspector window,
the watch window. Cause I
figured, well, it's like a
debugging context. You're just going
to be inspecting objects. If
I find typing, does it
start compiling after I like,
like, you know, X milliseconds
after the up I stopped
typing or is it okay,
Second right now I play
with that number, but it's
a third year Type type
type. You do your thing.
And then you wait for
a third of the second
or you breathe and then
it's running again. Okay. It
compiles first of course it
has to compile that that's
pretty fast because Rosalyn's already
did it. Roslyn's all fast
and ready to go. So
I have to spit out
an assembly and then I
have to pass that assembly
over to the interpreter, load
up all of its references,
find a good entry points
to it. That's what the
watch window does. It's, you're
actually picking entry points into
that assembly and then just
start executing that code. Yeah.
But it feels continuous. Like,
you know, if there's multiple
pages on a complicated application,
you know, you, you go
and hit F five and
you compile and then you
have to go and get
back to that state. Is
this something where you want
to set up your application?
So that the thing you're
working on is the, the
screen at hand. Yeah. And
that's kind of the focus
of the app is you're
usually working at our class
or an object at a
hand at a time. So
that could be an iOS
world. That could be your
route view controller that contains
all the other views of
your entire app. Or if
I'm working on a specific
user control, say like a
dial where I have to
spin my finger around to
change the numbers or something
like that, I'll just have
the class that represents that
view up in the editor.
I can go over to
the watch window, tell it
to knew what one of
these dials and I can
just interact with it and
play with it while I'm
coding. And that was the,
that was kind of the
realization I had when I
wrote the add in for
Xamarin studio was the style
of programming of just picking
a class and working with
that class one at a
time, it seems a little
bit constraining at first, but
it's very surprising how easy
it actually makes coning. So
if I were doing something
that wasn't, you know, a
game or a physics demo,
it would be, let's say
a master detail pages, then
I would make it so
that like, if I was
working on the details page,
I would set, set it.
So that was the default
startup. And then I would
have constant, ongoing feedback as
I work on details. And
then when I came time
to work on the list,
I would change my application.
So that, that was running
all the time. Yeah. That
that's pretty much it, but
you're not really, you don't
even have to pick a
startup object. You just kind
of navigate through the watch
window. You're just navigating an
object graph. And so yeah,
you just kind of navigate
around, find the object object
that you want and do
that focusing on that. And
if you need context, if
you need other classes around,
then you find a more
apparent object that contains that
one or a component has
that, something like that. And
then How do I get
the file off though? How
do I get the file
off the iPad? The kind
of the writing of the
file system has always been
difficult There, unfortunately, a tiny
bit of limitation of the
V one. I wanted to
have better support for all
of this, but right now
you just have the standard
iOS share sheet, which interacts
with all the other apps
on your, on your iPad.
So if you have a,
get a good client app,
you'll be able to send
files over to that app.
Or if you have Dropbox
on your iPad, then you
can send the files over
to that. I do hope
to be able to put
in native, get support and
iCloud drive, but guy called
drive. I'm not too excited
about, but I would like
some native get support. There's
a little disagreement in the
Apple community about whether that's
actually allowed in a program
like this. Apple has a
little clause saying something about
downloading executable code and it
gets very lawyery about what's
executable code and what's not,
but Like his source code
executable code. Okay. Right. And
I'm not a lawyer and
I get nervous about that
kind of stuff. But I
personally, I want some good
integration in there. Well, in
Calca you had all sorts
of like, you implemented your
own file, save dialogues, basically
in support for iCloud and
drop. Oh, wait. So much
talk about talking about pie
charts. I feel like half
of my time is spent
on file management UI Because
there is no file management
UI. Oh God. I wish
I would build that in.
Yeah. Well then it would
be a laptop and that
would be, I can't go
there. I guess. How much
of your time are you
spending using it now? Like
how much, like you've got
the iPad pro, which is
quite a bit larger than
the iPad and I assume
you have an external Bluetooth
keyboard. Yeah. I use Apple's
a keyboard cover. I think
they call it. Oh, okay.
Oh, the keyboard cover that
came with the iPad pro.
Okay. And you added some
extra buttons for the keyboard
to get to things that
are hard to get to
symbols and things. How much
of your time are you
spending working on continuous? Well,
running continuous. So I, I
actually use it in two
different scenarios. One is late
at night, I'm watching TV
and I just have some
stupid programming idea that I
want to whip out. So
it definitely works as the
casual iPad on the couch
scenario. So that that's all
fine. But the other scenario
is when I'm in the
office, I shouldn't say this,
but I, I have a,
I have a secret advanced
version. That's actually able to
talk to Xamarin studio and
things like that. So I
can actually ship code around
pretty quickly between the app
and that. And so I'll
do that during the day
sometimes. And then otherwise it's
basically the one with me
when I'm at home and
at my apartment when I'm
away from my 30 inch
monitor is basically when I
use the app. Cool. And
so, so far it's been
11 hours since you launched,
as of the time of
this, of this recording. This
show will probably come out
in a couple of weeks
from when we're recording right
now. But what has been
the feedback so far Then
super positive, which has been
a huge relief for me.
Well, it's been numerous and
positive, which is an even
bigger relief. I wasn't sure.
I always tell people, you
hate your app just before
you release it. And I
didn't hate this app before
I released. I actually really
liked it, but I went
through multiple hate this app
cycles throughout its development. So
it's been an up and
down journey. I ended on
a high note and so
it was good to see
everyone reacting very positively to
it. I always get worried
cause I mean, the app
is best experienced actually using
it. And it's hard to
capture that and screenshots, I
tried to put a lot
of Jeff's up and things
like that, but I was
still worried that everyone would
say, Oh, it's just, why
would I want a program
on my iPad? You know,
that classic thing. But it
seems like most people are
able to, I don't know,
imagine, I guess how, how
awesome this could be. Well,
it's one of those things
where people say, what problem
does this solve? And the
answer is, well it's, if
you have that problem, it
solves that problem for you.
And if you don't, well
then maybe this isn't for
you. Yeah. Or just give
it a shot and you
might discover something new. Yeah,
yeah, yeah. It is interesting
to see that, that the
issues with Apple development in
iOS development, for people who
are maybe aren't familiar are
virtually never technical issues. It's
always digging around in the
iOS developer program, license agreement,
you know, I'm like, Oh,
I want to do this.
That'll be great. Oh yeah.
Well section 3.3 0.2, you
know, explicitly allows that or
whatever. Yeah. And it gets
worse than that. Sometimes just
getting the app approved. I
remember Calco went through like
a two month or three
month approval process. It was
terrible the last time through.
And I was getting really
stressed out by that. I
mean, in contrast, this thing
was approved in a day
and a half, so it's
a little bit random or
a biobank has, Apple's been
making improvements. There is that
one of those things where
they like, do they scan
it or are they paying
attention and, or they're not
paying attention? Like could, could
you theoretically get an app
in with some feature and
then discover that, Oh gosh,
you know, we didn't mean
to really let you in
with that. And then we're
going to rank you after
the fact. I mean the,
the one feature that I
would absolutely love is the
ability to run Git code,
to be able to execute
memory. And that is an
operating system and forced the
limitation. So there's no chance
I would ever, even if
I wrote the code to
make that happen, the app
would just crashed the moment
and tried to do that.
So that would never get
through. And the rest of
Apple's rules I can just
deal with. So they're not
really a concern of mine.
I see. So it really,
that part of it is
the technical stuff. But for
the most part, it's just,
you know, Apple. Well, fortunately,
I've been doing this for
a few years now, so
you kind of learn what's
allowed and what's not allowed.
It's, it's just always in
the back of your head.
So even when I'm planning
an app, I'm always thinking
about the rules and I
won't even start an app
until I'm pretty sure it's
going to pass all the
rules. It's not worth working
on otherwise. Yeah. Well, this
is a really exciting application.
I think it is going
to, Oh, you know, there
are other, you know, IDs
and pseudo IDs in the,
out there on the world,
but this is the first
one that really feels like
it's more than just web
pages. You know, it feels
like something, something significant. Thank
you. Thank you. I put
a lot of time into
it. I spent a lot
of time in front of
a profiler trying to make
sure it was always fast,
always running very quickly. So
I'm really excited that it's
out there. Basically. This is
great. And we can get
this at, you had a
cool URL. It was conditioned
continuous.codes. You got it. continuous.codes.
C yeah. That's a great
TLD. They're great top level.
So folks can check it
out. It's continuous mobile development
environment. It's professional C sharp
and F sharp IDE for
the freaking iPad. continuous.coach. Thanks
so much Frank Kruger for
chatting with me today. Thank
you Scott, for having me.
I really appreciate it. My
pleasure. This has been another
episode of Hanselminutes and we'll
see you again next week.